= Dirty History

Dirty History is a simple gem that allows you to keep track of changes to specific fields in your Rails models using the ActiveRecord::Dirty module.
                                                                                                                               
== Installation

Add dirty_history to your Gemfile:
  
  gem "dirty_history"
  
Install it using Bundler
  
  bundle install

Generate the Dirty History migration and migrate your database
  
  rails generate dirty_history:migration
  rake db:migrate
  
== Usage

Dirty History must be set up within the ActiveRecord model (or models) you want to use. Simply include the dirty_history mixing and call the has_dirty_history class method on your model(s), passing the attributes that you would like to track changes to.

For example, assume you want to use Dirty History in your Widget model to keep track of changes to name and price fields as outlined below:

  class Widget < ActiveRecord::Base

    include DirtyHistory::Mixin     
    has_dirty_history :name, :price

   end        
  
You can optionally track the creator of dirty history records by passing a creator proc that will be called when a DirtyHistoryRecord is being saved for your object.

  class Widget < ActiveRecord::Base    
  
    include DirtyHistory::Mixin     
    has_dirty_history :name, :price, :creator => proc { User.current_user }

  end      
  
  widget = Widget.last 
  widget.name
    # => "Box"
  widget.name = "Heart Shaped Box"
  widget.save 
  widget.dirty_history_records
    # => returns all changes to the widget

  dirty_history = widget.dirty_history_records.last
  dirty_history.old_value
    # => "Thing"
  dirty_history.new_value
    # => "Heart Shaped Box"
             
  user   = User.find(123)
  widget.dirty_history_records.created_by(user) 
    # => returns all changes to the widget performed by the specified user
  
  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    creates_dirty_history
  end    
  
  user = User.find(123)
  user.dirty_history_records 
    # => returns changes made by the specified user
  
Now, suppose you want to access all of a user's changes to objects of type Foo:

  user = User.find(123)
  user.dirty_history_records.for_object_type("Foo") 
    # => returns the user's changes made only objects of type Foo

# TODO: add more documentation

== Contributing to Dirty History
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Gavin Todes. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

